Hello, I'm Andrew Mayne, and this is the
OpenAI podcast. On today's episode,
we're talking with research lead Joy
Chao and product lead Yunion Wang about
OpenAI for life sciences. We'll explore
what new models are making possible in
biology and medicine and what it takes
to deploy the most advanced capabilities
responsibly. This allows it to kind of
reach new levels of difficulty and
discovery that we didn't think was even
possible before. Putting like really
capable expert-level knowledge in the
hands of a greater amount of people.
>> One of the taglines was to scale test
time compute to cure all disease. So,
that is like our team tagline.
We started off with just a basic API,
and then we had ChatGPT, which is more
conversational, was really good for text
as code became a capability. Went
through basically code models and then
Codex. Now that you're getting more
scientists in the life sciences working
on these systems, does that mean things
have to evolve to help with the way
researchers might work with these tools?
Yeah, we're really excited to build and
deploy the life sciences model series.
So, this is a new biochemistry focused
model series that's really centered on
these very complex life science research
workflows. And we're focused on adding
new like mechanistic understanding
starting with genomics understanding and
protein understanding and really focused
on early discovery use cases because we
feel like that's like one of the core
bottlenecks that
uh greater thinking time, greater
compute, and really like leveraging like
more capable AI models can help
meaningfully scale some of these like
research barriers. And I think there's
also like a uh model orchestration piece
of actually how to embed this into
workflows. And it's been really great uh
for software having all these different
product surfaces to deploy to. We're
seeing a lot of really great like
literature synthesis workflows happening
on uh ChatGPT. And uh these models
really push the frontier of like long
trajectory agented workflows, and we're
really able to empower that on uh Codex.
And more on the model orchestration
piece is that I think for enterprise use
cases, there's like this reproducibility
and repeatability element. And we are
trying to overcome this by working on
like some of the life sciences research
plugins that we're shipping for very
specific translational uh bio users. So,
the life sciences research plugin has
over 50 skills, which are essentially
templateized repeatable workflows that
um if you need to whether do some sort
of cross evidence match and search
across various different papers or do uh
pathway analysis, something that's like
uh repeatable that you often do, you can
have like almost like a one-click deploy
option by using our life sciences
plugins on top. And that's also how
we're balancing
uh the balance between uh scaling for
very specialized uh purposes. Uh
something we're hoping to get into is
maybe clinical purposes, but also make
it still very general use for all
foundational biology. I think the models
can get quite far by using tools. So,
for example, we can use open-source
protein structure prediction algorithms
inside our research stack. And in this
case, the model is acting kind of like a
regular computational biologist. You
would kind of go run these tools on a
computer, you would look at the output,
you would tweak the input a little bit.
Um so, I think that is something our
models can already do. I do think what
will make the models even more powerful
is to start to turn them more into kind
of a biochemistry expert. And I think
with this kind of intuition and
expertise, you can use these tools um
even more intelligently and get at the
right answer more quickly. How did you
get your interest in life sciences? My I
guess original background was actually
in life sciences. Um so, I've always
been interested in biology as a kid. Um
I got my PhD in systems biology a decade
ago from Harvard. Um
found academia to be very interesting,
but the pace was a little bit more
slow-moving than I would have liked.
Um and I think just the the experience
of kind of like having to physically be
in the lab and kind of like transferring
small amounts of liquid from the one
tube to another. I think I wanted
something a little bit faster-paced
where I felt like I was more in direct
control of like my own velocity. Um so,
I went from that to software um and I
ended up here at OpenAI. And so, this is
kind of like a full circle moment for me
where I'm like starting to look at
biology again looking how to accelerate
my previous self with AI. So, yeah,
really excited to see what um progress
AI can make in this space. So, you're
like, "Yeah, this is too slow. Let me go
off in AI and speed it up so I can get
back into it." Yeah, except, you know,
from this end of it, I don't really ever
want to like touch a pipette or anything
again. So, I would prefer for like
robots to do it for me. Yeah, we joke
about that a lot. A lot of our
motivation for this is we can automate
pipetting and never have to do that
again.
Well, that's what's interesting is I was
looking at what you all did with uh
Ginkgo Bioworks and the idea of taking
GPT-5 and taking an AI system and then
working with a robotic lab and how it
was able to speed things up. Could you
tell us a little bit about that? Yeah,
um the Ginkgo work is interesting
because I think when it started, I think
it was like through July of last year,
uh 2025. And at that point, GPT-5 had
just finished training. We were really
not sure if the models could do any kind
of biology. We didn't really have that
much biology in our training data. It
was mostly math and computer science,
which I think makes sense because these
things have verifiable solutions, and
this is usually not the case in biology
unless you have you can go and do the
experiment in the lab, right? Um so,
when we started the collaboration with
Ginkgo, it was really can the model do
any biology at all? Can it design
experiments that actually make um
reactants like make the product that we
want? So, it was actually quite
surprising, I think, when GPT-5 designed
the first set of experiments with
Ginkgo, and the results came back. We're
like, "Oh, we made a non-zero amount of
protein." That was actually quite
surprising. And then I think progressing
from that point in time, which is just
roughly like 6 months ago, to now, where
it actually just feels quite obvious
that our models can accelerate science,
it's actually just really surprising.
And it really shows like the art of the
possible, I think. I think before that
experiment led by Joy and the the bio uh
Ginkgo team
was conducted, I think we really didn't
know like for ourselves. And I always
say like we kind of learn that for
ourselves when we like engage in these
experiments, and we have a few more um
in the in the works with others.
And I think that is like the type of
like acceleration that we're looking
for.
Um ingesting high-throughput
experimental data is really difficult.
It's very in compute-intensive. And I
think for a lot of these scientific
workflows, like the true bottleneck for
for the speed and progress of scientific
acceleration is at like um how like
almost a human bottlenecks. And I think
the future that me and Joy see is that
it's no longer um human bottlenecks, but
rather maybe compute bottlenecks. And
we're really able to like deploy many
subagents doing parallel orchestration
to uh divide and conquer all these
tasks, and the researcher can now spend
their time on like really analyzing and
interpreting like the most meaningful
insights coming out of that. So, Yunion,
how did you get into this? Yeah, I think
reflecting back, I've actually been
working on like biology research in some
shape or form for a majority of my time
here at OpenAI. So, I first started on
uh working on bio risk mitigations and a
lot of our biodefense initiatives. And
so, I feel like coming to now working on
the life sciences research side gives me
like just appreciation for how difficult
this problem is and tackling it from
both sides. And I've uh my initial entry
points into wet lab research was
actually through um doing a lot of
infectious disease and virology work.
So, I think I've always done like the
interest in biosecurity in that way. So,
this just feels like a really great
moment like right now to work on it,
especially when our models are getting
more capable at um beneficial use and
just general life sciences. How long has
OpenAI been focused on life sciences?
Yeah, I would say uh
it was really the way we designed our
capability evals that showed us that
this is possible. So, it's been, I
think, for um at least like 2 years now
that we have worked on a lot of our
early um research research experiments.
And now with the Ginkgo um autonomous
like wet lab uh model-in-the-loop
experiments. I think we we have a few
more research partners in the space that
we're really excited about. I think I'm
I can't actually name everyone right
now, but there's a lot of stuff kind of
in the chemical design, protein design,
enzyme design space that I think is very
AI native and a lot of people are
interested in. So, understanding how the
world works, um understanding how
chemicals react, understanding how cells
interact, how pathways inside cells
interact, all the way to can we
accelerate drug discovery? So, given a
disease, can a model help scientists
understand the mechanism? Can we, once
given a target, actually find design a
drug against that target? Can we even
accelerate the FDA approval process? So,
I think there's a role for AI to play
kind of at every uh step of this
pipeline. And yeah, I think just I I
think there's a lot of AI possible in in
everything. I've been to some of those
cutting-edge labs, and on the outside
you have this impression of it, and then
you walk in there, and you literally see
somebody with, you know, a row of Petri
dishes, a row of samples, and just some
grad student going click, click, click.
And I'm like, "Oh, this is the pace of
science. This is fast as
But yeah, you have to exactly like,
"Enough of this. I got to go speed this
up." But we forget that's often the pace
of science is just how fast the human
hands can move through that. And with a
tool like that, it's kind of exciting.
When you start using these tools to
maybe think about uh
new pathways for treatments or just
evaluate, You also introduce the idea
that these could be used for things that
maybe are less desirable. You know,
bioweapons is something that comes up a
lot. The fact that, if you know, an AI
can figure out how to do a code exploit,
might be able to figure out how to do a
gene exploit. How are you addressing
that? Yeah, that's a great question, and
I think it is just probably one of the
most severe risks that we're currently
really tracking for uh
rising AI capabilities.
Our first approach to that was really
thinking about um
how do we assess for information
hazards? At what point does a model now
um maybe give like the the final step in
like a synthesis of a dangerous um
pathogen.
And what we found is that like the
precursor steps to that really looks
very benign, and it's really hard to
distinguish between. So, another way to
put it is like the same steps that a
beneficial like a legitimate actor might
take is looks very similar to the ones
that a
um dangerous actor
>> You start with something that's Yeah.
Yes, exactly. So, I still think that we
we made the right call for really taking
a very um
risk-averse approach to that. But, now
I'm really excited about like uh
differential access and like responsible
deployment as really a core pillar of
all of our safeguards work. And really
understanding that um there are
different user segments, and I almost
feel like the future we're going towards
is um something like
models as a professions, similar to how
they um models have different
personalities, and sometimes you want to
invoke the right one depending on um the
the type of like um
workflow you're looking at. So, I think
how this translates is um similar to how
biologists working on like therapeutic
therapeutics and their research, um they
require access to um data sets are often
uh very tightly controlled, or they
require access to just expert level like
they all have PhDs and have expert level
like biology like knowledge.
How does that compare to How does that
translate over to to models? I think
that's why we have to kind of similarly
take to the same training approach, but
also the same security approach and
deploying that in like a way where we
can have those very heightened uh
enterprise grade controls in place. So,
you just mentioned safeguards. Can you
explain how that applies here, where you
would need them, why you would need
them? Yeah, so we very thoughtfully
design and uh design new safeguards for
pretty much all of our models across
very different risk areas. But, I think
when it came to bio, this was like the
first dual-use risk that is both also a
capability risk. So, it very much
correlates with how we um as
capabilities improve, the risk
correlates.
And I think that's why when our first
approach when we really there was no
precedent for a lot of this work, and we
were the first to really activate these
high safeguards when we saw that that
significant uh reasoning jump in our
model capabilities. Uh we really wanted
to make sure that we did it right, and I
think the best way to get it right is to
incrementally deploy. Yeah, I think it's
really a fine line between having a very
capable model that's capable of
accelerating benign science and
beneficial science versus a model that
could be used by a bad actor. And I
think the safest model here would be a
model that just had no capability,
right? And you That's not very good.
Yeah, it it's not very good, but it's
very safe. Um and on the other hand, if
you had a model that is basically an
oracle of the physical world that
basically knows everything about every
experiment, um that model could fall
into wrong hands and do potentially very
bad things cuz someone can go and say,
"Hey, design a new novel pandemic
potential pathogen." And the model can
just go and do that autonomously.
Um so, I think we need to kind of
figure out where we draw the line in
between the two, and kind of think about
who gets access to a potentially very
capable model, and who doesn't.
And what we found in kind um called
general access traffic is that it's very
difficult to figure out what a user's
actual intentions are just from kind of
reading a prompt. And I think as an
example of this, let's say someone says,
"Hey, help me clone a gene." The model
might not even be given what a gene is,
um but it can come up with a protocol
for it. And so, this gene could just be
something like green fluorescent
protein, or it could be a toxin. And
there's basically no way to figure that
out from the context of the
conversation.
And so, this becomes a very difficult
problem in production.
And basically, I think like you said, we
um decided to kind of err on the side of
safety here, and basically say that,
"Okay, if we think that there is a
potential for misuse, we either have the
model kind of self-refuse the user, in
which case it it tends to say things
like, uh "Sorry, I can't really help you
with that, but I can give you a
high-level overview of this protocol
instead."
And this unfortunately very um very much
annoys our kind of professional
scientists, understandably.
Uh and then we also kind of have
multiple layers of mitigation on top of
that.
But, I think really to unlock the full
capabilities of our models, what we need
is this differentiated access. And what
this means is we know who the user
actually is. They are a professional
working at a legitimate research
institution or a pharma company.
And because of um the regulations around
these institutions, we know that for
example, all the reagents are being
tracked, all the cell lines that they're
using are being tracked. And so, this
gives us confidence that this is a
legitimate user and not a random person
in a basement doing who knows what. Um
and that get allows us to give them
basically more capabilities than we are
able to provide to the general access
traffic. What can you do right now if
you're working with a models, you're
working it within a laboratory? What
would you say the capabilities at this
moment? So, I think people use the
models um for very different things. Um
I've talked to people in the bigger lab
recently on kind of about how they've
been using our models on like Codex, and
sometimes it's as simple as, "Hey, can
you write a spreadsheet for me? I don't
want to just minimize the number of
pipetting steps that I have to make."
And this hit me very hard because I had
done the same thing by hand in grad
school.
Um so, that that's like a a very simple
just mathematical um software operation.
And then there's much harder tasks. I
can you um design a enzyme for me with
all of these biological design tools.
So, I think there's a huge range of
sophistication.
Yeah, and something I'm very excited
about is how we can use our models to be
a uh more powerful discriminator in like
really testing and assessing like new
novel ideas.
And I think something that I've been
noticing as a trend with a lot of our
research partners, and also um
users of our models, is that uh models
for scientific research and task almost
require a different like persona or
different prompting style. So, we I
often feel like, you know, like a model
that is much more scrutinizing or
accepting of good ideas is it's very
similar to how human scientists would go
assess like originality and feasibility.
It's really like I think uh
helping understand like out of all the
new new papers and new publications out
there that
push the frontier of all of these
hypotheses, what are the ones that are
really feasible and valid for testing
that's going to help, you know, lead to
new breakthroughs.
So, and then translating this to
something like
uh disease target screening, selection,
like the potentials for these drug
targets are endless, but it's really
like narrowing down the aperture, and I
feel like that's where like the
assistance comes. Like, this is
extremely difficult work to do at scale,
and having a model that can like empower
and accelerate that process, I think is
kind of like one of the immediate
impacts we're hoping to see by by uh
responsibly deploying this this model to
those those users. It seems like it's a
very interesting trajectory. You went
from there was you had GPT-3 on the API,
and GPT-3.5, then you get ChatGPT, and
now we have ChatGPT apps, and now we
have Codex, and it sounds like these
things just the number of things you can
do with this continues to grow. How
would you see this building, you know?
Do you see this as basically just
becoming a complete infrastructure for
kind of every kind of inquiry you might
want to pursue? Yeah, I think the dream
is to have a lot of uh the basic
foundations of scientific workflows
happen on Codex. And I think though the
goal is to have Codex to pretty much be
able to do everything that is possible
uh to do on a computer.
Um of course, we also want to extend
beyond that with kind of hooking it up
to robotics and so forth. But, I think
right now um we already do things, for
example, if we have a bunch of different
dev boxes that are remote on our laptop,
we can actually say, "Hey, Codex, go and
run this code on all of these different
uh dev boxes that are all remote." And
then uh Codex can do that. Or I can say,
"Monitor this for me." And I kind of
like go away and do something else, and
the Codex is just like there watching
all the logs for you.
Um it can build a lot of just kind of
fit-for-purpose software uh for
analyzing specific pieces of data, for
visualizing data. So, for example, if we
have experimental biology data that
we're sending each other on the team,
what I've noticed recently is instead of
sending the raw data, we've started
sending HTML files are just these kind
of like beautiful UIs that Codex has
built with kind of like spinning
proteins, and it's actually just a
really it it kind of changes the way
that we share with each other and
collaborate. Yeah, when we first started
mapping out how uh users and
organizations might adopt this, I think
we envisioned that each uh scientist
would get their personal assistant or
their coworker. And this is a way that
they can help scale up their their um
their collective output. And then the
next paradigm of that would be scaling
up whole research institutions where a
whole program team can actually deploy a
a like workforce of various agents and
they can all do like parallel task
delegation tell mimicking a lot of these
existing patterns and we we can figure
out the pieces of like
how they can all collectively like work
together to solve like larger larger
tasks. It's interesting because open AI
has talked about the need for compute
and I think that sometimes we just sort
of think like okay, so I can have more
conversations and stuff. But when you're
talking about the idea of building these
tools to become
entire platforms for scientific
exploration.
It sounds like the computer advantage is
really critical. Yeah, I think there's
two different axes we can think about
how we are scaling compute. The one that
I think everyone's familiar with is just
getting bigger models and I think as we
went from you know GPT 2 to 3 there was
a huge size increase and there were just
these amazing emergent properties from
the model. I mean thinking about you
know when GPT 2 was released, we were
all kind of collectively amazed that it
was able to write a coherent article
about unicorns and now we're in a
completely different world, right? And a
lot of that is driven by model
architecture. Yes, but also just the
number of parameters in the model just
allows it to achieve this incredible
intelligence that we never thought was
possible before. And then on the other
axis we have what we call test time
compute scaling and this is when you are
inferencing a model when it's kind of
spitting out tokens
and this is a thing that happened fairly
recently when we call deep reasoning
models is that it can think for a
scalable amount of time and this is a
variable depending on how difficult it
think it thinks a problem is. But we can
have the model think for days or really
just kind of ways to just kind of have
it think forever about a problem and
this allows it to kind of reach new
levels of difficulty and discovery that
we didn't think was even possible
before. When we think about data
centers, we often just sort of think
about it as generating cat pictures or
doing text conversations, but I think
that's really the helpful framework to
look at it is it these are going to be
systems for doing extremely long-term
big complex
processes of thinking about this and
it's it's
it to me it just makes a lot more sense
when you know projects like Stargate
saying we're going to be building a lot
of compute. It's not just for what we're
doing now, but it's going to be for
things like that. When we had first
announced the team's formation on Slack,
I think one of the taglines was to scale
test time compute to cure all disease.
So that is like our team tagline team
motto. That's ambitious. Yeah.
I had a friend whose child was born with
one of those orphan diseases and she
would do fundraisers do everything she
could to try to support some researchers
who were trying to find a cure for this,
but they just not enough time, not
enough people and you know, I'm hopeful
that we're kind of in an age now where
these kinds of tools are going to make
that maybe a thing of the past. Yeah, I
think we're already seeing the model
help a lot in these cases.
I think from things like drug
repurposing. So for example, a drug
that's already been cleared by the FDA
for use in one different indication, but
it for kind of like from mechanistic
understandings of how that drug works,
the model has suggested in many
different cases for maybe you can use
this drug to temporarily ameliorate
symptoms.
We're also seeing a lot of advances in
personalized medicine. So for example,
the design of ASOS or other RNA based
treatments is very common. And I think
yeah, we are actually very very close to
being able to scale this up um
in in a really vast way with AI. I think
just in the next year or two, I think
we'll see very big changes here.
Every every researcher right now when
you ask them what they could use in
their lab, they always say more hands,
more people, more people doing this kind
of work. And you hear some people talk
about well, is AI going to displace
that and I think no, it sounds like it's
just a big accelerator for all the
things that could be done. Yeah, I
completely agree. Um
I feel like
when you think about lab automation for
example, a lot of the um
bottleneck comes from actually being
able to translate a protocol into
something that can be run on the
platform and we've had partners tell us
about how Codex has been helping them do
this and this is kind of fundamentally a
half coding problem half understanding
how wet lab works. And then I think
thinking about the data analysis piece,
I feel like having our models kind of
walk through a user who maybe doesn't
have the deepest understanding of
statistics, they can still rigorously
analyze the data that's coming in. The
model can kind of help them probe
different hypotheses or it can suggest
different statistical tests. It can
point out potential issues and biases in
the data. I think these are all ways of
kind of uplifting individual scientists
and helping them do better science.
But I don't think we can ever fully
replace the scientist in the loop. So
you've been putting in the lab, you've
figured out how to help with the
automation.
Where do you think we're going to be 6
months from now, 12 months from now?
Well, I would really love to get to the
point where we can say that AI has
designed a new drug or cured a disease.
I don't know if that can happen in 6
months, but I would hope in the next few
years that's going to happen. I think
we're seeing signs of this happening
kind of all over different stages of the
pipeline. I think obviously earlier um
in the drug discovery process where
you're kind of looking at literature
synthesis or the model is kind of
discovering new biology for that to
become a new drug on the market is going
to be a very long process for possibly
like a decade. But I think there's ways
that we can really speed up this process
by starting at maybe the clinical trial
stage or starting a little bit before
then in
the safety reviews or in the drug design
phase. So I think
yeah, basically that's that's what I'm
the most excited about coming up in the
next few years. Yeah, for me I think I'm
most excited about all the possibilities
that our users our scientists can can do
on our on our platforms. So for one I
think a huge win would be if a
researcher can patent a new finding or a
new discovery on our platform and using
our models and that's why we really
focus on like early discovery and
starting with building like teaching the
models like the mechanistic
understanding.
So this is again like trying to provide
the most powerful tools through our life
sciences models to these scientists so
they can really accelerate the speed of
their research. Do you think we'll get
to a point where the models are going to
really good at basically predicting the
cell or predicting the outcome? I think
definitely yes. I think it depends on
the complexity of a system. So for
example, one thing our models are
already very good at is
predicting the outcome of a chemical
reaction and I think as you increase in
biochemical and biological complexity,
some of the hardest things to predict is
given a drug, will this be toxic to a
specific person or to a specific system
and I want to slowly work our way up to
that, but that is definitely on our road
map as something we want to do
eventually. When we're looking at models
that do things like language or math,
it's pretty easy to put together evals
for it. Did it get the problem right or
get it wrong? What do evals look like
for models that are doing biology? Yeah,
we have
various different ways of evaluating
model performance. A really nice way to
do this is kind of with experimental
data. So someone has already done the
experiment and then you ask the model
can it kind of predict the outcome of
these experiments. So a lot of the kind
of virtual cell work basically looks
like this, right? So someone has done
single cell RNA-seq on millions of
different cells and then you feed this
to a model and then you try to
predict a unseen perturbation.
We can also do a lot with synthetic data
and this means that maybe you have
generated a set of data and you put very
specific characteristics in this data
that could be kind of like foot guns for
the model. And these are things that
maybe a typical computational biologist
might encounter day-to-day. So this
could be some weird bias in the data. It
could be some QC thing that you have to
do or statistical correction. And
because we generated the data ourselves,
then we can actually go and test the
models capability as a computational
biologist that does a catch all these
different mistakes. So there's a lot of
different ways we can be creative with
the evaluation.
But that being said, I think wet lab is
still kind of the the final like real
evaluation of the model, right? And as
you like to say nothing in biology is
really real until you can prove it in
the real world and so we do have a lot
of research collaborations where we try
to do just that.
Yeah, evals have really become more
complex and sophisticated over time and
I think that's especially true for
designing evals that can really capture
both value creation, but solving complex
problems for life sciences. So I think
we really try to focus on examples that
are not like toy problems, but really
capture that like for example like the
the messiness of like pre-processed like
data. And when we design these new
evaluations, a starting point is often
just trying to recreate an existing
experiment. So something that has
already a baseline, so we already know
what the either current state of the art
looks like or the current ground truth
looks like. So a evaluation I'm really
excited about is looking at if our
models can um
assess like the antibody binding
predictions and looking at how that's
been done for an existing virus variant.
And then once we have already done that
baseline, we can push forward and say
can we do this with something that
hasn't been done before. And I think
that is like some of the precursor steps
to de novo antibody design
maybe expanding the the neutralization
for new viral variants and that's also
on the path to new treatments and
potentially developing new vaccines.
What has been the reception in the life
sciences, particularly at conferences,
in the community, people you know?
Have you seen a lot of willingness to
embrace this?
Or skepticism, or people who just don't
think it's helpful?
I think it probably depends on what part
of the country you're in.
I feel like kind of being on the West
Coast, everyone is pretty AI pulled, and
so they really embrace this AI
scientists, AI gentic workflows.
Um and they really kind of see the
future for AI.
When I'm at a conference on the East
Coast, this changes a lot. I think
people are generally a bit more
skeptical. Maybe there's a a little bit
more
uh doubt around the AI capabilities. And
yeah, I think it's just maybe like a
cultural difference. I think most of the
big AI labs are here, and so we kind of
have a first-hand experience of what the
models are capable of, and this kind of
changes our perspective a little bit.
How do you bridge that gap? How do you
get more scientists to understand? Cuz
it sounds like the more people
contributing the better, because there
are weaknesses or areas need to be
improved upon, and the more you get
people who are maybe skeptical about
this to sort of figure out how to
participate. Yeah, I think there's a few
different ways. Um the easiest way is by
launching our models through different
platforms like chat or Codex. And I
think just by kind of showing individual
scientists how useful this could be,
maybe it's just making a serial dilution
spreadsheet for someone who's pipetting.
Um but that has real value, right? And I
think you can kind of build up from
there. I think coming from the other
end, we do have these more deep research
collaborations with labs for for example
antibody design or enzyme design. And
these sort of things are kind of more
oriented towards publications, and then
people will read and say, "Okay, you
know, a AI system did a lot of work. It
has biological novelty. It's been proven
out in the wet lab." And so I think that
also lends credibility to the system.
Yeah, I think the simple answer is you
show by doing, and you show by
publishing and engaging with the
scientific community.
And I think the skepticism is really
healthy and should be welcomed. I think
it's it's just really great to see
people get really excited because and
also trying to like disprove maybe,
because the potential for this
technology is so great if we get it
right and if we can actually really
leverage its full capabilities. So I
feel like
the carefulness about how do we actually
make this work for real problems is like
very much warranted. But yeah, I think
when we publish uh and I think that just
also shows a need for more
uh
rigorous evaluations that represent like
these life science um workflows and
research problems, so people can look at
and eval and say, "Yes, like I feel like
now I have
like a hundred different ideas for how I
can implement this into my uh my lab and
solve some of the current bottlenecks
I'm uh facing."
I actually think there's a certain
amount of um stress I've encountered
from people who
are worried that, you know, AI's really
powerful, but they don't know how to use
it the right way. And so there is this
general feeling of like I need more AI
in my workflow, in my life, but they
don't know where AI should come in. And
I think part of the product vision is to
just make it so simple that it just
works. So you can just go to something
like Codex and say, "Hey, I want to do
whatever I'm doing today." And then
Codex can figure out all the different
pieces, the multi-agent workflows, the
tool calling, all of that. And so yeah,
basically you don't have to stress about
how to get uplift from AI, and it just
happens naturally. We we do see those
step changes every time these models
become
smarter and understand users better, you
get more utility because some people go,
"I don't have to spend a lot of time
trying to prompt it or figure out all
the tricks to it."
If you were talking to somebody who was
considering getting into the life
sciences, maybe a high school student
right now, what advice would you give
them? I feel like when I was in high
school, so I did the um USA Biology
Olympiad back when I was the high school
student. And I think out of all the
different Olympiads, I think biology was
seen as kind of the most like
memorization-heavy
one.
Um versus like math, right? Where it's
kind of more I don't know, test time
compute scaling, whereas biology is more
kind of memory and retrieval.
I think my hope is that with AI having
kind of like learned all the
relationships between uh all the
different research pieces,
is that it can really uplift human
creativity and just make the process
less memorization and more kind of
helping people connect different fields
of research together, and just kind of
um
I guess I'm furthering the frontiers of
what people are able to explore in
biology.
So yeah, I I feel like my advice to I
guess a high school student um would be
that maybe you don't have to kind of go
and memorize all the biology books. You
should just do more exploration with AI.
I think you can definitely read papers
and just ask questions.
Um and I think you can do uh both deeper
dives and broader overviews this way.
And I think the just the the way of
learning really changes. I found that
when I was in the lab, there was like a
real like
solo like individual aspect of doing
biology research compared to like for
example when I went to my first like CS
hackathon, there was some excitement
about just like the collaborative nature
when we first like built our like app
together. So I feel like that's really
the future I hope to see for early
adopters and students using our models
and maybe using it in like the Codex
front time, because there is like a
collaborative nature to it, too.
I think like for example sending your
scripts or sending your conversations,
or maybe one day we have like we all
have like our own like co-scientist or
agent, and we can like
deploy our agent to now work with a
teammate in that way. I think that
there's just like new like interactions
and new modalities for us. I would just
encourage students to adopt early and
just to like also pioneer their own path
for how they would like to use it. Uh
for me personally, I always actually
have felt like I got into the wet lab a
little bit too early, and like we
mentioned earlier, I did not enjoy
pipetting.
That's a theme here. Nobody likes
>> a lot of like very intense manual tasks
involved. And so I I hope that like, you
know, when our AI models can connect
with physical devices, that yeah, we can
just like make a lot of like the the
learning curve more fun for for um
students, so that they can kind of like
uh learn with the models and then kind
of like maximize our time with like the
really um interesting uh
uh interactions uh spaces. So I've been
working with a student. I like to help
students come up with projects, and one
of them is we've taken Codex, and he's
connected to a greenhouse, and basically
using it to get photos back and to look
at it and to evaluate it. And I think
it's been fun to see how he's been
taking both, you know, AI technology and
then something traditional like a
greenhouse and combining them two, and
basically building up the skill set of
learning how to use the two of them.
When you talk to your peers, you talk to
people who are running labs or running
experiments, uh researchers,
what advice do you have for them?
Because the problem I've seen is that a
lot of them go, "That's great. I just
don't have the time."
But
ultimately what we're trying to do is
save them time. So
do you have any kind of quick advice
that you give them or any ways you try
to maybe inspire them?
Most people that I know um
I think in academia use AI in
I think two main ways that I've seen.
One is to kind of talk to AI about an
existing piece of research paper or
something and just kind of make sure
that you're understanding things the
right way or kind of fact-checking. And
this is personally what I really like to
use AI for, cuz you can ask it really
dumb questions and you don't feel any
judgment. And it's actually just really
wonderful for learning.
Um and uh I think people use it a lot
for analyzing experimental results. And
I think this comes back to the
statistics uh piece that I learned where
what what I mentioned before, um where
sometimes you don't know what the right
way to analyze your data is, or there's
just kind of so many different
interdisciplinary fields that your uh
your data might touch on something in
chemistry or something in like a random
niche field of like protein biology, and
the really nice thing is that a model
can kind of like pull those different
ways of data analysis and for you and
kind of explore all of these different
paths.
Um
I feel like both of those are pretty uh
low-lift ways to try things out. So you
could just kind of like throw a PDF file
at AI and just be like, "Hey, help help
me understand this paper." And just have
a natural conversation. Or you can, you
know, boot up Codex and do some data
analysis directly on your laptop. Yeah,
I I would say that you'd have to start
with
making sure it doesn't feel like work
right away. So maybe it'll be easier
when you're focusing on AI adoption to
just like work on like a hobby project
or a passion project. Uh for for me for
example, I actually
started um working on like more like
literature synthesis um tasks when I was
doing creative writing projects, which
are kind of like just something that was
not at all related to
um
like our day-to-day, even though
biology is a very creative space. I was
just exploring that through like a
different different medium, and I think
that's actually when I started unlocking
a like a lot of different ways to either
prompt the model or to actually access
different uh data sources. So I think
that kind of just gave me a lot of like
um pattern matching abilities for when I
was trying to apply it, because we're
not going to get it right in the first
try, and it is really hard, and I feel
like the the progress and pace of this
field moves so fast that every like week
or month there is like a new like pretty
exciting development that might change
how we um engage with models or AI
systems. So I think it's just important
to get started somewhere and I think
another theme is the collaboration
element. I feel like it's more powerful
when you have a recommendation from
either somebody on your direct team who
is doing the same day-to-day tasks as
you. Um that happens a lot on our team
as well where somebody will say, "Oh, I
got Codex to like now touch these three
different like internal like databases
that we weren't able to connect before."
And I don't even like the the latent
space, the latent capabilities are just
so vast that there's a lot that we just
don't know until it again we can do it.
So, I think just having conversations
with your friends, your lab mates, your
teammates will I think spark a lot of
those conversation a lot of those great
creative juices and then help you help
you with your own adoption. What does
science look like 10 years from now? I
think when we started this team,
we do have like really just ambitious
targets and one of those is like I think
we do want to make meaningful towards or
even if like assist with like um curing
a disease. And I think there's just so
many uh rare like orphan diseases that
doesn't really have the attention it um
and the resources that it warrants
because it's just such a um a difficult
field to actually like for example like
clinical research is so difficult to
actually bring that to patients and to
market. Uh so while 10 years I feel like
is just really
uh a really long time line. I'm I'm
really excited about like some of the
progress that we can make and I think
it's good to like be carefully
optimistic that like we're going to see
some of those breakthroughs pretty soon.
Yeah, I think maybe this is a bit of a
sci-fi vision that I have of the world
that I really hope it comes reality
which is that you have these autonomous
labs that are just mostly robots and you
have them all hooked up to AI and you
just have autonomous research institutes
that are constantly running and curing
human disease. It's maybe making new
materials, uh making new drugs. It's
maybe solving personalized medicine.
There's a lot of end of one or just
ultra rare diseases where people without
vast monetary and research scientific
resources can't even begin to think
about solving, but we can solve that
with AI. And I think we can kind of
almost break through the financial and
regulatory and monetary constraints with
the system. So, I think that that's like
kind of the dream and I think also even
separately thinking kind of more about
the security side of things. Um these
systems can be kind of constantly
sampling our environment, right? It can
be sampling waste water. It can be
sampling the air and constantly
detecting potential threats or even just
you know better predictions for the flu
and getting better flu vaccines. But
just generally these different medical
countermeasures, I think should be
happening autonomously in 10 years and I
think that that's basically something
yeah, I'm really excited about.
>> The AI lab is exciting because I think
if people really understand what it
means is it's not there aren't
scientists. It's they're more
scientists, but they sit at home and
they go into Codex and say, "Can you go
run this experiment for me?" Like you
have a data center, you have a science
center doing that. Right, exactly. Yeah,
and I think I I did an um talk about the
scientists in this in division I was
just uh describing, but obviously there
are people involved in here. And I think
it's really kind of high-level direction
setting from the humans. We're saying,
"Here's a patient with this disease.
Here are some potential solutions or
things that maybe you can look at." And
I think that AI can then go off and
explore different ideas. It can design
experiments and then come back to the
humans and say, "Here's what I found.
What do you think um we should do next?"
And this can be kind of a um academic
discussion. It's a little bit uh similar
to kind of the way that people interact
with Codex today where you say, "Here,
go write a function or go write a piece
of code." And then it writes and says,
"Here here's the code." And then the
person tells you the next thing to do.
So, I think it's
a little bit similar to that kind of
interaction, but on a much grander scale
and on a much longer time horizon. I
think it's really like the democratizing
science aspect and putting like really
capable expert-level um knowledge in the
hands of a greater amount of people and
I think what that can mean for
personalized medicine, for bolstering
our societal defenses.
Um there's just like so many naturally
occurring um new like variants every
year, new like uh influenza strains. So,
I think it's really just like securing
defenses and feeling like we actually
have more agency to counter all that.
And I think I'm really excited about a
lot of like the uh medical
countermeasure acceleration work as
well. Well, it's very exciting. Thank
you for sharing this with us. Thank you
for having us. Yeah, thank you so much.